Methods for assessing clustering tendency

In this section, we’ll describe two methods for evaluating the clustering tendency: i) a statistical (Hopkins statistic) and ii) a visual methods (Visual Assessment of cluster Tendency (VAT) algorithm).

**Statistical methods**

The Hopkins statistic (Lawson and Jurs 1990) is used to assess the clustering tendency of a data set by measuring the probability that a given data set is generated by a uniform data distribution. In other words, it tests the spatial randomness of the data.

For example, let D be a real data set. The Hopkins statistic can be calculated as follow:

1. Sample uniformly n points (p1,…, pn) from D.
2. Compute the distance, xi, from each real point to each nearest neighbor: For each point pi∈D, find it’s nearest neighbor pj; then compute the distance between pi and pj and denote it as xi=dist(pi,pj)
3. Generate a simulated data set (randomD) drawn from a random uniform distribution with n points (q1,…, qn) and the same variation as the original real data set D. 
4. Compute the distance, yi from each artificial point to the nearest real data point: For each point qi∈randomD, find it’s nearest neighbor qj in D; then compute the distance between qi and qj and denote it yi=dist(qi,qj)
5. Calculate the Hopkins statistic (H) as the mean nearest neighbor distance in the random data set divided by the sum of the mean nearest neighbor distances in the real and across the simulated data set.
The formula is defined as follow:

$H=∑y¡/(∑x¡+∑y¡) $ i=1 to n

How to interpret the Hopkins statistics? If D were uniformly distributed, then ∑i=1nyi and ∑i=1nxi would be close to each other, and thus H would be about 0.5. However, if clusters are present in D, then the distances for artificial points (∑i=1nyi) would be substantially larger than for the real ones (∑i=1nxi) in expectation, and thus the value of H will increase (Han, Kamber, and Pei 2012).

A value for H higher than 0.75 indicates a clustering tendency at the 90% confidence level.

