Hanson is an American pop rock band from Tulsa, Oklahoma, United States, formed
by brothers Isaac (guitar, bass, piano, vocals), Taylor (keyboards, piano,
guitar, drums, vocals), and Zac (drums, piano, guitar, vocals). Supporting
members include Dimitrius Collins (keyboards, guitar), and Andrew Perusi (bass)
who have toured and performed live with the band since 2007. They are best
known for the 1997 hit song "MMMBop" from their debut album released through
Mercury, Polygram, Middle of Nowhere, which earned three Grammy nominations.
Despite the enormous commercial success of Middle of Nowhere, the band suffered
from the merger that eliminated their label, Mercury Records. The group was
moved to Island Def Jam Music Group, which they eventually left after a
conflict with the label. Hanson has sold over 16 million records worldwide and
have had 8 top 40 albums and 6 top 40 singles in the US, as well as 8 top 40
singles in the UK. The band now records under its own independent record label,
3CG Records.

History
1992–96: Early years

In the early to mid-1990s, Isaac, Taylor and Zac sang a cappella and recorded
such classic songs as "Rockin' Robin", "Splish Splash" and "Johnny B. Goode",
as well as their own material. Their first performance as a professional group
took place in 1992 at the Mayfest Arts Festival in Tulsa. They were known as
the Hanson Brothers, before shortening the name to Hanson in 1993 (see
https://lccn.loc.gov/n97100326 )

Hanson also appeared on Carman's "Yo! Kidz: The Vidz", which cast Taylor as a
young Biblical David facing Goliath, Isaac as an event announcer, and Zac and
other members of the family in the stands cheering on this "sporting event"
(see https://www.amazon.com/Carman-Yo-Kidz-Vidz/dp/B000A2R8XK ).

All three boys started their musical careers as pianists, but Isaac eventually
started playing guitar and Zac started playing drums, while Taylor continued as
the keyboard player. The band recorded two independent albums in their hometown
of Tulsa, Boomerang (recorded in autumn 1994, released in 1995) and MMMBop
(released in 1996). The latter featured the original version of the song
"MMMBop", which would later become the runaway single on their debut commercial
record Middle of Nowhere. The band played in Austin during the South By
Southwest music festival in Austin, Texas, which led to them being signed by
manager Christopher Sabec.  He shopped them to several record companies, most
of which dismissed the band as either a novelty or fraud before Steve
Greenberg, an A&R representative for Mercury Records, heard them play a set at
the Wisconsin State Fair. After this performance, they were signed almost
immediately by Mercury. They soon became a worldwide sensation with the release
of their first major-label album, Middle of Nowhere, which was produced by
Stephen Lironi and the Dust Brothers.


1997–2000: Commercial success

"Middle of Nowhere" was released in the US on 1997-05-06, selling 10 million
copies worldwide. May 6 was declared 'Hanson Day' in Tulsa by Oklahoma's
then-governor Frank Keating.  Although 'Hanson Day' was originally intended
to be a one-time occurrence, many Hanson fans all over the world still
recognize May 6 as Hanson Day every year. Hanson's popularity exploded during
the summer of 1997, and Mercury Records released Hanson's first documentary
"Tulsa, Tokyo, and the Middle of Nowhere" and their Christmas album "Snowed In" in
the wake of their success. Hanson also launched MOE (which stood for Middle of
Everywhere), a fan club magazine that ran for 12 issues (see
http://www.itsincredible.com/band/cat?page=MOE+Magazine ). After numerous
unauthorized biographies of each of the brothers were published, Hanson turned
to their close friend, Jarrod Gollihare of Admiral Twin, to write their
authorized biography. "Hanson: The Official Book" reached number 9 on the New
York Times Best Sellers List (nonfiction) on 1998-02-01 (see
https://www.nytimes.com/books/98/02/01/bsp/bestpapernonfiction.html ). The band
was nominated for three Grammy Awards in 1998: Record of the Year, Best New
Artist, and Best Pop Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal (see
http://www.cnn.com/SHOWBIZ/9801/06/grammys.list/index.html ). During the
summer of 1998, Hanson began a highly successful concert tour, the Albertane
Tour. They performed a string of shows throughout stadiums and arenas in the
US, targeting young audiences with a playful and energetic style. A live album,
titled "Live From Albertane", was released the following fall, as well as their
second documentary "The Road to Albertane".

In response to the demand for their earlier work, Hanson re-released "MMMBop"
as "3 Car Garage", minus four tracks, in May 1998. To date, the tracks from
"Boomerang" have not been re-released. Three tracks from "Boomerang"
("Boomerang", "More Than Anything", and "Rain (Falling Down)") and two of the
remaining tracks from "MMMBop" ("Incredible" and "Baby (You're So Fine)") were
released on the first MOE CD sent to fan club members.

During the Albertane Tour, Hanson wrote and demoed what would later become the
songs for their second major studio album, This Time Around. During this time
period, Mercury Records, the band's label, had been merged with Island Def Jam.
Almost immediately following the changeover in May 2000, Hanson released their
second album, "This Time Around", but due to lack of promotional funding, sales
were low and the label eventually pulled funding for their tour. The band
toured through the summer and fall of 2000 on their own funds (see
http://www.hanson.net/site/sections/107 ).

2001–05: Independent career

After a three-year struggle, the brothers left Island Def Jam Records to seek
more creative freedom. Label executives had refused over 80 songs from the
band, believing new material lacked marketability. The documentary film "Strong
Enough to Break" follows these events.

Hanson now records for their own independent label, 3CG Records (see
http://www.vh1.com/shows/dyn/vh1_all_access/78349/episode_about.jhtml ). The
label has distribution deals through Alternative Distribution Alliance in the
United States, Cooking Vinyl in Europe, Sony Music in Asia and with various
other distributors throughout the world.[13] During the dispute with their
former label, Hanson signed with the management company, 10th Street
Entertainment, which also manages artists such as Meat Loaf and Blondie.[14]

The band's "Underneath Acoustic" tour occurred during the Summer and Fall of
2003. Music included acoustic versions of songs from the then-forthcoming
release, Underneath. The tour ended 2003-11-05 with a performance at Carnegie
Hall.

Released on 2004-04-20, "Underneath" sold 37,500 copies in the first week of
release in the US alone. The album debuted at No. 1 on Billboard Top
Independent Albums chart and No. 25 on the Billboard 200 album chart,
making "Underneath" one of the most successful self-released albums of all
time.

In autumn 2005, Hanson toured in the US and Canada to support "The Best of
Hanson: Live & Electric". They also visited colleges to showcase "Strong Enough
to Break", the documentary chronicling difficulties with and departure from
Island Def Jam. During college visits, the band held question-and-answer
sessions about independent artists' role in the music industry.


